content/about/_index.md, before:

+++
title="About"
template="about_index.html"
+++

# About Me

Recent graduate of Saint Martin's University with a Master of Science and also a graduate with a Bachelor of Science, both in Mechanical Engineering. Currently looking for a role where I can apply my knowledge and the skills I've learned to a challenging work environment where I can continue to grow and learn as an engineer.

Aside from general mechanical engineering knowledge, my coursework and academic projects has allowed me to develop knowledge of modelling and simulation. Specifically, I've done Finite Element Analysis in ANSYS as part of my [capstone project](../projects/spherical-pulsation-dampener/) (a Spherical Fluid Pulsation Dampener) and automating stress calculations in Python through modelling the loading cycle to design a [piston connecting rod](../projects/piston-connecting-rod/) for a class on internal combustion engines. I've also taken coursework in optimization algorithms - both linear and non-linear - with a focus on engineering problems.

As a potential candidate, these skills and knowledge enable me to automate repetitive design calculations and focus on making the important design decisions. In today's world, this is an important skill for working in a fast-paced environment where design requirements can be highly complex and prone to change.

You can check out all my projects [here](../projects).

Thank you for visiting my professional portfolio website. If your a recruiter and know of a role where I would be a good fit, please feel free to reach out to me by phone, email, or on LinkedIn.


------

Outside of engineering, I enjoy reading books, 3D printing, and spending time with my family, including taking walks and going on camping trips.

Commit message:

Mention robot arm on about page

content/about/_index.md, after:

+++
title="About"
template="about_index.html"
+++

# About Me

Recent graduate of Saint Martin's University with a Master of Science and also a graduate with a Bachelor of Science, both in Mechanical Engineering. Currently looking for a role where I can apply my knowledge and the skills I've learned to a challenging work environment where I can continue to grow and learn as an engineer.

Aside from general mechanical engineering knowledge, my coursework and academic projects has allowed me to develop knowledge of modelling and simulation. Specifically, I've done Finite Element Analysis in ANSYS as part of my [capstone project](../projects/spherical-pulsation-dampener/) (a Spherical Fluid Pulsation Dampener), modelled and simulated a [2D robot arm](../projects/robot-arm/) using the AutoLev software package and MATLAB, and automated stress calculations in Python through modelling the loading cycle to design a [piston connecting rod](../projects/piston-connecting-rod/) for a class on internal combustion engines. I've also taken coursework in optimization algorithms - both linear and non-linear - with a focus on engineering problems.

As a potential candidate, these skills and knowledge enable me to automate repetitive design calculations and focus on making the important design decisions. In today's world, this is an important skill for working in a fast-paced environment where design requirements can be highly complex and prone to change.

You can check out all my projects [here](../projects).

Thank you for visiting my professional portfolio website. If your a recruiter and know of an opportunity that I might be interested in, please feel free to reach out to me by phone, email, or on LinkedIn.

------

Outside of engineering, I enjoy reading books, 3D printing, and spending time with my family, including taking walks and going on camping trips.
