content/projects/robot-arm/index.md, before:

+++
title = "Robot Arm Modelling and Simulation"
date = 2024-02-28
extra.summary = "For a class on Modelling and Simulation, I worked with a partner to model and simulate a two-link, 2D robot arm with AutoLev and MATLAB. We later wrote and published a technical paper on this project, discussing how our work could inform the design of baseball-pitching robot arms in the ASME IMECE journal."
+++

# Overview
------

As part of a class on modelling and simulation in Fall 2023, I worked with a partner to model and simulated a robot arm as a simplified 2D, 2-link model. To accomplish this, we solved for the equations of motion and the forces on the arm using Kane's method and the software package/domain specific language AutoLev. AutoLev enabled us to perfom the multibody dynamics computations and generate a MATLAB script for simulating the equations of motion.

You can view our project report [here](Team2_Kyler_Qinfu_MME568_Project2FinalReport.pdf).

# Publication
------

In Spring 2024, our modelling and simulation professor Dr. Shawn Duan approached us about publishing our work and tying it into the field of robot arms designed to pitch baseballs, as that was an area he felt was ripe for research. In the article, we discussed how our methodologies and results could be a foundation for future work that would bridge the gap between theoretical models and practical applications.

[Publication](https://asmedigitalcollection.asme.org/IMECE/proceedings-abstract/IMECE2024/88636/V005T07A042/1211913)

Commit message:

Added IMECE presentation to robot arm page

content/projects/robot-arm/index.md, after:

+++
title = "Robot Arm Modelling and Simulation"
date = 2024-02-28
extra.summary = "For a class on Modelling and Simulation, I worked with a partner to model and simulate a two-link, 2D robot arm with AutoLev and MATLAB. We later wrote and published a technical paper on this project, discussing how our work could inform the design of baseball-pitching robot arms in the ASME IMECE journal."
+++

# Overview
------

As part of a class on modelling and simulation in Fall 2023, I worked with a partner to model and simulated a robot arm as a simplified 2D, 2-link model. To accomplish this, we solved for the equations of motion and the forces on the arm using Kane's method and the software package/domain specific language AutoLev. AutoLev enabled us to perfom the multibody dynamics computations and generate a MATLAB script for simulating the equations of motion.

You can view our project report [here](Team2_Kyler_Qinfu_MME568_Project2FinalReport.pdf).

# Publication
------

In Spring 2024, our modelling and simulation professor Dr. Shawn Duan approached us about publishing our work and tying it into the field of robot arms designed to pitch baseballs, as that was an area he felt was ripe for research. In the article, we discussed how our methodologies and results could be a foundation for future work that would bridge the gap between theoretical models and practical applications. Our technical paper was published in the IMECE 2024 Journal and I presented our work at the IMECE 2024 conference in Portland, Oregon.

You can view our presentation [here](ASME_IMECE2024_141597.pptx) and our publication [in the IMECE journal](https://asmedigitalcollection.asme.org/IMECE/proceedings-abstract/IMECE2024/88636/V005T07A042/1211913). Note: Due to IMECE copyright, I can't provide a free copy of the publication at this time.
